# AirBnb_Data
# Please click on the link below to view my AirBnB project: 
https://public.tableau.com/views/AirBnbProject_17174361122020/Dashboard1?:language=en-US&:sid=&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link

This project was done by utilizing Tableau in order to create stunning visualizations to help my friend make a worthy investment into an AirBnb property in his foreseeable future. My friend was interested in looking into the great Seattle Washington area, and wanted a 3 bedroom house to rent out to other people on AirBnB. This data collected was back from 2016. The data was imported into Tableau. I worked with three tables which were Listings, Calendar, and Reviews. Used the JOIN clause to combine Listings, and Calendar based on the primary key of both tables to gain further insights on the data being housed. The other table "Reivews" was not needed in this project since my friend was not worried about the reviews. Furthermore, the Price by ZipCode (sheet 1) was created to understand the average price of an AirBnb home with respect to the ZipCodes. It was then discovered that Zip Code 98134 had an average price range of $206 dollars per night. Price per Zip Code (Sheet two) was created to provide a map view of latitude and longitudinal data to simplify the differences between the average prices per zip code. Weeks to rent out property (Sheet three) was creaated to provide further insights on the best months to rent out his property on AirBnb. An average line was added for my friend to gain further insights on when he should rent out his property to others on AirBnB. Average Price per Bedroom (Sheet four) gives further insights on the average price per bedroom since he was specifically looking for a 3 bedroom house. Number of Bedroom Listings (Sheet five) was created to help my friend weigh out the competition by the number of bedroom listings on Airbnb at that time. Lastly, a dashboard was built to present to my friend in order to make a better investment decision.  
